# JSON Web Tokens (jwt)

- [JSON Web Tokens (jwt)](#json-web-tokens-jwt)
	- [Links](#links)
	- [Basics](#basics)
		- [Authorization Tokens Intro](#authorization-tokens-intro)
		- [JWT Intro](#jwt-intro)
		- [Header](#header)
		- [Payload](#payload)
		- [Signature](#signature)
		- [Security](#security)

***

## Links

1. [Main](https://jwt.io/)
2. [Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)
3. [Article about vulnerabilities 1](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/)
4. [Article about vulnerabilities 2](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-0114)

***

## Basics

### Authorization Tokens Intro

1. User logs in using his credentials.
2. We return him the token generated using his credentials.
3. When user wants to access a protected route or resource, it includes **the token** with the request - typically in the `Authorization` header using the `Bearer` schema. 

```
Authorization: Bearer <token>
```

4. The server's protected routes check for a valid JWT in the Authorization header, and if it's present, the user is allowed to access protected resources. Sometimes you don't even need to access the database (if the JWT contains all the necessary data).

If the JWT is sent in the `Authorization` header, **cors** isn't an issue since it doesn't use cookies. 

***

### JWT Intro

In its compact form, JWT consist of three parts separated by dots (`.`), which are:

- Header
- Payload
- Signature

So it typically looks like this: `xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz`.

Example:

```js
// Header
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}

// Payload
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "iat": 1516239022
}

// Signature
// Your secret
```

This data is then **concatenated** using dots (`.`) and **encrypted** (or vise versa???). 

The output is 3 `Base64Url` strings separated by dots (`.`). In this compact form, they can easily be passed by HTTP or any other method. 

```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

***

### Header

Header typically consists of 2 parts: 

- type of the token (usually `jwt`)
- the signing algorithm (`HMAC SHA256` or `RSA`)

```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

This JSON is `Base64Url` encoded to form the 1st part of the JWT.

***

### Payload

Payload contains data ("claims") about the user.

**Important!** The info here is protected against tampering but **is readable by anyone**, so **unencrypted secrets are never put in here!**

```json
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "admin": true
}
```

This JSON is `Base64Url` encoded to form the 2nd part of the JWT.

***

### Signature

The signature verifies the message wasn't changed along the way.

If tokens are signed with a private key, it can also verify that the sender of the JWT is who it says it is.

***

### Security

JSTs are signed using either of the two:

- `HMAC` (secret)
- `RSA` (public/private keys)





